on the river San Juan, after one of the skirmishes of the retreat from Cerro
Gordo. Our division had thus suffered severely, although not one-half of its
original number. We were sent back to the north bank of the Rio Grande, in order
to build a fort and fort and fort on the eastern bank, where the northern and
western branches unite. I was with the second division, commanded by Major-
General Jackson, at a place called El Castillo de la Independencia, or Castillo
de the Independence, about twenty miles from Brownsville, on the west bank of
the Rio Grande, and four miles below the confluence of the Rio Pecos and the Rio
San Juan. Here our army had the bad luck to fall in with General Alvarez, and
two other generals and three hundred and twenty men, whom he had collected at
Leon, in Upper Louisiana. This gave us a great deal of trouble in establishing
our works. The Indians defended the places we took, with great obstinacy; but,
as we were generally protected by the chaparral, we made no difficulty about
opposing them.The plan adopted was, that the artillery and small arms should be
brought up to the positions we occupied, and then those who had the temerity to
attack us, should have their hands cut off; but the plan succeeded,though not
without much fighting. We had but little flour, and that very bad; we had no
salt, and were obliged to eat horse-flesh.The Mexicans were acquainted with
every thing; they had guns, powder,lead, and balls; and they thought that, in
the hands of so many men,they could keep us in check, for a long time.Our
general, who was aware of the enemy's numbers, had resolved to wait until they
had no longer any hope of getting out of the fort, and then attack them. I, who
was very fond of horses, and very courageous as to anything that concerned
myself, had the temerity to enter the fort and inspect its condition. I could
find no kind of provisions. I had even made some experiments to ascertain the
strength of the garrison. I found that, as I had been assured, the Mexicans
could muster about eight hundred men; but as they had no confidence in their
officers, and as they had no other means of obtaining powder, I was led to
conclude that, as it was impossible for them to keep us in check, they must
abandon the place. But, as they had been given ammunition to enable them to
resist us, I was sure they would not neglect it; and, in consequence of this, I
determined to risk all.The day before the attack, as I was returning from the
top of the fort, I heard the clash of arms, and presently found myself
surrounded by a body of the enemy. As I could not escape, I took the road by
which the enemy had come, and, by way of avoiding the defile, I got out on the
other side, and, passing by a few soldiers, who had run out, I continued my way
through the town, and concealed myself in a wood. Soon afterwards, the enemy
entered the defile, which was choked up with the bodies of dead horses and
mules. The troops, at the same time, were hurrying to the left, and, as I was
alone, I was enabled to conceal myself without being seen. The Indians had
barricaded the road, and we had only three or four men with us. One of these, by
his name, was an officer of the Mexican lancers; the other was a sergeant, by
name Reduan-el-brero; and the third, a man of the name of Blas,was a subaltern,
named Dobereiner. I took a position, which I considered advantageous, to cover
myself from observation. After having passed two hours in the woods, and seeing
nothing, I resolved to attack. The road I had chosen was a narrow path, which
crossed a steep hill, over which the road passed, and then descended the hill,
on the other side of which it passed again to the village. The attack was a
rapid one, and, at the same time, I attacked it from two opposite quarters. The
first time, I killed several men, and wounded several horses, while the second
time, I killed three or four, but I had still some trouble in repulsing the
lancers.The firing commenced on both sides; but the Indians, although they
fought well, and killed a great number of the Mexicans, did not let the Indians
retreat. In the heat of the fight, a large body of Mexican lancers, who had been
sent against us, broke through the hedge of wood in which I was concealed, and
rushed with impetuosity on the place where I was. The noise of the fight, and
the fire from the wood, filled me with terror. I immediately climbed up a tree,
and, after lying down in the branches, I remained perfectly still, hoping that
the enemy would pass by, in order to attack me in the rear. This uncertainty
caused me great anxiety, and at length the lancers came near me, in order to
make me prisoner. The horse which I was mounted on, seeing the sabre which had
been raised to strike me, neighed, and I felt certain that he was aware of the
danger to which I was exposed. I therefore quitted the tree, and descended to
the ground, where I took refuge, in order to wait until the lancers should have
passed. My place was immediately supplied by a young Mexican, who, approaching
me, took me by the arm, and, saying, "Go and tell your countrymen that they have
seen us," he led me towards the enemy. At this moment, a single Mexican soldier,
whom I had not before observed, advanced towards me, crying out, "Come along,
brave fellow!" We entered the battle together, and I gave him my sabre, with the
hilt of which I was wounded. The Mexicans had brought with them a lance with a
very large iron head, which they used for killing wounded men.The fight was not
long. I was wounded in the thigh, and I did not dare to let the lance fall from
my hand. My adversary took it from me, and attacked me with great fury; but I
defended myself with a chair, which I used for the purpose. I was wounded twice
in the thigh, and I was wounded in the side, and several balls passed through my
body. The lancers retired, and I remained in the field with the two men who
carried me. I remained there for three hours, during which the Mexicans were
fighting desperately. At last they perceived that I was dead; and they fled. I
was carried to a small fort, where I remained two days, with the intention of
being put to death, and the wounded men who were in the fort were promised their
liberty if they would surrender.The general was informed of the affair, and he
ordered me to be carried to the hospital. I was laid upon a bed, and I was
watched by two of the hospital women, who, for the sake of the importance
attached to their persons, and for fear that the Mexicans, in the hope of
recapturing me,might kill me, kept guards at the door of the room. The groans of
the wounded man, who had been severely wounded in the thigh, made me lose all
patience; and I spoke to the nurses, threatening them with my sabre,if they did
not let me alone. The more they remained silent, the louder I spoke, until I
made them beg my pardon, and promise to be quiet. I then related to them the
whole story of my captivity. The women said they would not be so impudent, and
began to weep. I asked them for what purpose they had secreted me in the fort,
as I could not be of any service to them.They replied that, after having been
taken prisoners, I had been killed by the enemy, and that they were unwilling to
leave me to die. They begged me to promise that I would not attempt to escape,
in order that I might not be treated as a prisoner of war. I promised, and the
conversation ended. In the evening, I was told that the next day I was to be put
to death. I was very sorrowful, and prayed for mercy; but I had reason to be
thankful to God, for, in my extreme agony, I was not able to accuse the women of
falsehood.On the following day, I was led to the place of execution, where a
chief, with his chiefs, and several warriors, assembled round me. A large cross
was fixed to the ground, and a priest, who had been in the fort, and who
officiated as the executioner, was at the foot of the cross. I was made to kneel
down before the priest, who read prayers, and made
