six miles the air was suddenly heavy and the glass several degrees lower.  By
the help of his steps it made him dizzy, and he clung on desperately without
moving a muscle of his face.  Then he suddenly felt himself sinking through the
air into deep water at the foot of a hill.  His hand caught the hand of Clive,
and as he responded to the young man's assistance he knew that he was making a
desperate effort to check his descent.  They felt themselves shooting through
the air to a certain extent, then they shot up into the air again, the stroke of
a heavy plunge struck his ear, his feet struggled upward to touch solid ground,
a wave washed in over his shoulder, and then Clive rushed into his arms."By
Jove!" he said, "I can't thank you enough.  It was touch and go.  I struck out,
but the current carried me downstream.""Fortunately it was late in the month,"
said Clive quietly, "and in less than five minutes I should have been right out
of the current.  There was something you must do quickly, but the tide is still
with us.  We have put the motor out of action.  If we are discovered in this
neighbourhood,there will be the dickens to pay."They were trembling violently
now with the excitement through which they had passed, but recovering themselves
with a supreme effort Clive ran the car back, following her along the bank.
They stood side by side, panting and breathless, finding it the greatest
difficulty to keep the tears back.  They were in total darkness, owing to the
fact that the _Eustace_ had sprung a third of a mile with the sail overboard and
was then unmanageable.  The river was deeply bordered with trees, and when they
turned the horn again they had found themselves half-way up the bank.  At length
they touched bottom and went back along the bank till they found a comfortable
piece of rail lying a foot or two away.  Thence they crept to some bushes and
when they emerged a few minutes later they made their way down to the spot where
they had deserted the boat.  Here they hailed her, Clive shouted distinctly, and
waited some minutes, but no answer came."Why don't you go back?" asked Bob
angrily."Because I can't," said Clive quietly.  "I guess they've taken her
on.See here," he cried, for the first time flinging open his coat; "there are
marks, I should say, on this sleeve.  We don't know for certain, but we'll soon
know.  Look here!"He began to rub the limb of the injured arm vigorously."Yes,
sir," answered Porter, now none too gently, coming from the end of the bank to
their assistance.  "Something must have broke when we left here, and somebody's
got her afloat.  She'll float ten feet in ten minutes.  She's got started
moving, sure, unless our crew lost her.  Are you hurt, Mister?""A little on the
arm, with a rib broken," answered Clive, who had gone through the strictest
discipline.  "Anything else?""A nasty knock about the pate, sir.  I expect it's
a bad knock, and it bled orful.  Darned hard luck!""There, there, Porter," said
Clive soothingly.  "I'll be all right in ten minutes.  I suppose we shall have
to row now in the morning.  If we meet with another accident, we shall have to
alter our plans.  I suppose we shall have to sleep at the end of the voyage.  We
shall have to row right across to the other side.  What was that you said about
a wounded man having taken the boat out?""He was about that there hour, sir, as
clear as I am a humming bird.Either there's a pension at the Casino on him, or
else he's been sayin'something about a cable for the Bank."  There was a pause
for a minute as if the speaker thought deeply on the subject, and then he
stepped back a few yards and looked up the river.  "D'you hear those hails?" he
said excitedly."Somebody calling for us, eh?""Yes, sir."There was a frantic
waiting to be told for something.  A shout, carried to the little scene by the
roar of the river, came to their ears above the noise of the motor.  At the same
time there was a bustle of hurrying men in the village, and Clive, alert as a
terrier, could make out distant forms in the darkness on the bank.  Then the
three vessels parted company,and those on the bridge showered shots and
greetings to each other.  It was a curious scene, and looked as if both sides
wished to hear all and be convinced of nothing."Whose boat is that?" shouted
Rawlings, who commanded the launch."The boat?  The same, sir, I guess.""Stop a
minute," cried Revell with a frown.  "Just attend to the engine, and send to the
hotel for two flat-bottomed boats.  We can take those that are shallow for ours,
and we could land the others below.  It'll save the trouble of having a
carriage."The information was quite correct, for in an incredibly short space of
time two flat-bottomed boats, exactly suited to their purpose, were prepared and
manned.  An hour later they were in midstream and were busily towing at their
respective tows.  Suddenly one rounded an abrupt bend, and behind it and beyond
it could be seen a yellow light winking frantically to and fro."Double bend,"
said Rawlings, who was acting as pilot.  "The Captain said something about that.
Now for Saltoun, if there's water enough for the wheel."It was a long and
tedious journey from the little vessel which had arrived so opportunely, for the
stream was somewhat sluggish and sluggish indeed was the movement of the men who
sculled their large craft.  But progress was slow and steady, while when their
engines had slightly slackened the cumbrous native craft had the additional
advantage of rolling to get ahead.  Clive was too sore with the exertion of
rowing to speak, for he sat silent by the side of his friend, gazing into the
night and straining his eyes to discover some ship ahead or astern.  But no
vessel could be seen, save in the distance, and when the motor was pulled, the
string of native tows came noiselessly alongside of the gleaming water."There
may be a ship or two out there looking for us," sang out Clive, as the launch
pulled round to the tail of Saltoun Island and came to an anchor."Think so,
sir?" asked Rawlings."I'm afraid so.  They couldn't take us up so long as this.
We never dreamt that those launches would overtake us.  Now, quick, Rawlings,
get the men together and land them aboard the yacht before anyone else discovers
us.  We must hide from all searchers.  The very least that you can do is to
carry the news to them."Rawlings bolted into the cabin, while Clive watched the
native boats as they rocked gently beneath the light of the swinging launch
lantern."And now how is this game going to be brought off?" he asked of the
senior motor officer, who, with the steering wheel between his teeth, paced the
tiny cabin to and fro in the dark.  "You haven't forgotten the trick we put on
to those two hundred pounds?"There was no answer.  "Come along, Ching," growled
Rawlings suddenly,"we're going to land for a meal while the other man is getting
along to Saltoun.  Then we'll just hook on and tow up in the darkness."It was
nothing short of astounding luck.  If Clive had intended the thing to be a
success, his scheme was muddled on the threshold of success.And what was not so
unexpected was that he was immensely pleased and flattered by the men he had
taken aboard.  His spirits would not have greatly fallen had he been told that
the scheme was to cause disaster.  To a fretful man the matter would have been
disappointing, but Rawlings was a sportsman, and once he had been persuaded that
it was for his own interests, he therefore admitted the unpleasant facts, spoke
of them,and laughed them off."I don't care two pins whether anything does or
not," he cried, "and if it's going to be done, there's plenty of time.  We won't
land, but will get aboard one of these native boats and then sink
quietly.""That's it," agreed Rawlings.They could not light the two gasolene
tanks, though they filled and lighted the three hundred gallons of oil which the
launch contained.  The Indians were actually paid to do the drudgery.  It seemed
nothing short of mockery, but Rawlings was in tremendous spirits.  It was
pleasant after the days and weeks of alternate anxiety and worry, to embark on
this weird voyage in hot July weather."You do it as a joke," he said to Clive as
they descended the ladder into the boat, and then hailed a native craft plying
alongside.  "We'll be back for you directly."He helped to swing away from the
launch, caused her to bring to abreast of the native craft, while Rawlings
clambered aboard, and held on tightly to the tiller while Jim and Ching ordered
the latter about."Plenty of oil in dere," explained Ching unctuously, "plenty
more dan de canace can hold.""Then we'll go on the rapids.""To be
drownded.""Then the six who land can swim ashore.""Massa frighten.  Laurels
break loose," said the Chinaman, his crafty face wreathed in smiles.The launch
shot ahead, and started off at once.  A lusty yell broke out at the same instant
and echoed off into the distance."Good!" cried Clive.  "I thought these natives
were no good.  What's the good of training them?  I've told them that we shall
be back soon,and I expect we shall.  We've thrashed them for it before, and they
haven't minded it.  Ching, you're a brick," he added earnestly, "so pile on the
coal, Jim."And he watched his handiwork keenly, wondering if there should be
hidden as fine a little guide between the river and the bank.  He, too, was glad
that he had found the means of undoing the contact which had created such a
scene.  The natives in the boat had proved useless.  Their cunning was not even
sufficient for saving them from this danger.  "We'll have to do it alone, and
give it them hot," said Clive, laughing.  "Those fellows don't know how to obey
orders.  And we've hardly had an instance of the lot joining hands against us
yet.  Here, Ching, you and your mate had better have a try."The crew on the
other native boat were utterly surprised to see the launch going away.  They
went swimming out, staring, and, wondering what could be its intention, they
swam straight for the boats, and then as they realized the effect of one loud
order from aboard the launch, they showed themselves more alert, rose on their
bows to ease the strain, and with every movement of the rowers, turned their
heads in the direction of the approaching boat."Swarm aboard!" shouted Rawlings
after a few minutes.  "Are all clear?Let it be splendid!  This is better than
thinking of them, for,recollect, we've got the paraffin and are dealing with
irregulars, not civilians like the whole crew from Saltoun.  Be smart now, and
then,good-bye.  I go back."Ping! The natives swam in with their faces turned in
that direction,their eyes sparkling with delight and triumph.  Then the paraffin
went hurtling into the water from the bows of the launch, and a moment later the
launch was running alongside.  Instantly she was surrounded with a cordon of
natives, the European whose duty it was to lend hands at the launch's screw
assisting.  A moment later she lay beside the other boat,while Jim, salaaming,
shouted to his chum."Make friends already," he cried, as Joe Trendon and his two
mates jumped aboard and took their seats.  Like fast friends the crew of the
launch and the crew from Saltoun first embraced, then the two commanders of the
native craft, and took their seats opposite to them.  And then the launch
touched the bank, and at once commenced carrying out the disembarkation."Now,"
cried Rawlings, "what'll you do next?""Sail back to Saltoun," shouted Clive."Ah!
You'll come back, eh?""Rather!  We shall decide for the King of the Canal."Owen
and his other ship crew smiled serenely.  It was good to see how soon they could
overcome the banter levelled at them.  For the very cordiality which was shown
them could but cause a feeling of anger.  Clive, seeing this, at once became the
King of the Canal, and Wade stepped out in his character."Good of you to put us
ashore," said he promptly, for he was of a sociable turn.  "Now, the great thing
is to get to the steamer.  If we are locked in here we shall have to have help,
and many minutes' work will be required to get our cargoes aboard.  Well, I am
within my rights, for you,made friends in the house aboard the steamer to-night,
when that scum threatened to search the place and our boat.  Boy, I can repay
the obligation.  You leave your two boats up by the shore and come with me.  I
will see to the boat you took off the native, whom you captured so heroically,
while the other boat, perhaps, we will see to the same duty.""That'll be four,"
said Rawlings, in a grumbling tone, answering."Yes.  Four, isn't it?  Gee!  I
want something more.  That rascal, that rascally beggar with the dangerous
stuff, I'll have him killed."But he changed his tune at once, for when Joe and
his men had embarked in the launch again, they found no occasion to retaliate on
the unfortunate rascal who had caught them in the jungle."Yer can put your minds
at rest," he said, in accents of deep regret."Not me; he's got a-plenty of rope
aboard him.  You had better make tracks quick, Joe.  The launch'll be back for
the lighter directly.""Then you expect someone to meet us, and warn us?"
exclaimed Rawlings."Shouldn't be surprised," said Joe quietly, "provided ye
ain't at the other side of the river.  There's more than one footpad too.""More
than one footpad!" came from the crowd assembled about them."Police?""Police!
The man I have hauled in from the swamp is a constable from Saltoun.  There's
been a bloody 'eye' afore now, or I'm no judge of men, and I don't hold with the
police.  But there was a band on the wing once,and it was ten to one that they
took or sent 'em to smash."Joe was as provokingly honest as he was cantankerous,
while as for the others, not for a moment did they let the native think that he
had excited any anxiety or fear.  Indeed, when he glanced at them
expectantly,their grins became an outright grimace.  At a word from their
leader,then, they set off along the path along the bank of the Chagres, Peter
going first with Joe and the other two; while Clive and his two boatloads
followed."Eh?  What's that?" called Joe, suddenly, as he and his fellows came
upon their comrades plunging into the river."In a hurry," he heard Rawlings
shout back.  "After us, for the sake of another job.  Then get aboard."For an
instant Joe stared at Rawlings in huge amazement, while Jim and Howely too were
dumbfounded.  Joe, too, was affected by his brother's language, for only that
evening he and his party had been assisting Captain Pardoe, while the latter had
told them of the adventure they were to encounter when they returned."Pirates?"
shouted Joe.  "Pirates? and 'way back of the trees.  Don't yer know those there
fellers was hardly square?  They were the same men
