he often speak of it, I must, for the sake of my son, say what I have said.""It
is the opinion of all, sir," answered Aaron, "that the conduct of Lord Byron has
given such annoyance to Mr. Hobhouse that he has given up his visit to Italy,
and intends remaining here as our guest.""Is that your opinion, Mr. Copley?"
said Lord Byron, in a tone of some surprise, and looking up from the letter on
which he was then employed."I have no reason to think otherwise, my lord," said
Copley; "the young man is certainly an exceedingly clever man, and I have a
great regard for him, and am proud to receive him. But he seems to me rather
young and inexperienced. His age cannot be great.""He has not reached my age,"
said Lord Byron, quickly, "and, I think,ought not to be exposed to such
dangerous experiment.""But, my lord," observed Mr. Copley, "it is a mode of
proceeding to which I should think him liable. Young as he is, he must know what
it is to be exposed to such exposure.""The boy," replied Lord Byron, "is not yet
old enough to know what is expedient.""The boy, my lord," replied Mr. Copley,
"is perfectly prepared for the emergency, and it may be dangerous to attempt to
stop him.""Let him try his experiments," said Lord Byron; "there is no use in
attempting to control him. I am not more ready to endanger my own happiness than
any man living, and I should not think it prudent to attempt what I have seen
you attempt so often--the seduction of an unprotected young woman. I do not
think there is any man living that would not commit such an act. But if you
intend to come here, I will leave you to your own discretion.""My lord," said
Mr. Copley, rising, "it is not for me to express an opinion on this subject. I
am convinced that Lord Byron's feelings towards you are those of a most
respectful attachment, and he does not appear to me to be prepared to bear any
exposure. It is not for me to blame him. I have no reason to suppose that he is
not what I wish him to be, or that I am wrong in supposing he is of a temper not
to be controlled by any consideration. But, at the same time, it is my duty to
point out to you the serious error you have committed in making him an inmate of
your house. You have brought up a child, who is now capable of judging for
himself, and who ought to be placed in a situation which will enable him to
judge for himself, and to decide upon his own conduct, uninfluenced by the
comments of others. Lord Byron's family, and the world, are very well aware of
the character of his conduct. I believe, also, that the world is aware of the
advantage you have derived from this system, and that you have been deceived in
this respect.""What!" said Lord Byron, turning towards Mr. Copley, "do you mean
to say that you and I are in error as to the character of my conduct? It is not
so. I may have been imprudent, but I have been no more so than other young men
of my age, who are often thoughtless enough. I may have suffered wrong at the
hands of my friends, but I never injured them, nor have I ever caused them any
inconvenience. You know this, Mr.Copley.""I do, my lord," said Mr. Copley; "but
I am not here to defend my conduct, or to defend my conduct from any fault of
Lord Byron's. I only desire to have an opportunity of explaining to you, and to
those who may think differently, the reason why I was led into error.""I shall
not be displeased if you explain the reason to those who think differently,"
said Lord Byron, coolly.Mr. Copley then proceeded to state to Lord Byron the
circumstances under which the first visit to Newstead had been made."Lord
Byron," said Mr. Copley, "in the early part of the year 1818, while I was
residing with his lordship in his new house in London, he made an arrangement
with my friend, Mr. Ward, for the supply of some young noblemen, who were
desirous of coming to live with him. His lordship had been informed that I was
then living in a distant part of the country,and that it was desirable that I
should be informed of his intention.I had, therefore, taken a house in the
vicinity of London, and had procured for him the necessary information. This was
in the month of June, the date at which he fixed upon the removal. He had not
been long in the house before he found out the impropriety of his proceeding,and
the impossibility of his staying longer in it, without endangering his life; and
he told me he had formed the intention of withdrawing from the house. This
resolution was communicated to me by my friend, Mr.Ward, who was acquainted with
the affairs of the family. I could not conceive how Lord Byron could have formed
so foolish a scheme; but I thought it advisable to communicate it to you,
because I knew you were not acquainted with the circumstances under which he
wished to leave the house."Lord Byron then expressed his astonishment that Lord
Byron had ever entertained the thought of withdrawing from his house, when it
was within his power to have quitted it; and that he should ever have thought of
staying in it, after having been exposed to the dangers of death, and to the
danger of ruin, which he could not avoid. He added, that he would not for worlds
have given Lord Byron the slightest cause to be displeased with him; but, on the
contrary, he was proud of his friendship and regard, and would never have made
the offer he had made,had he not considered it the more honourable. He concluded
by observing, that the promise he had made Lord Byron was of his own free will,
and that it was not owing to any unwillingness on his part to enter into any
kind of engagement. He had already given Lord Byron his word of honour that he
would never attempt to withdraw from the house; and that he would not have done
so had not the circumstances under which he wished to quit the house arisen from
his own imprudence. He would not be the last man to act in a similar manner.
Lord Byron was determined to remain where he was; and he would not leave the
house, except for the purpose of performing some service to his friends.Mr.
Copley replied, that Lord Byron had spoken of leaving the house,and that the
whole conversation was entirely of his own free will. Lord Byron acknowledged
the propriety of what he had said; but he did not admit that the house had been
abandoned. Lord Byron thought that the propriety of Lord Byron's retiring from
the house arose from his having been treated with so much disrespect by the
servants, in his residence,in consequence of the quarrel which had taken place
between himself and his eldest son. He thought that Lord Byron had behaved with
propriety and good faith in forbearing to take any notice of the language used
towards him by Lord Byron, and still less to refer to it. He said that it was
impossible for Lord Byron to conceive the idea of leaving the house, or that he
could have thought of going from it, unless there had been some strong and
particular reason for his not doing so. He further added, that Lord Byron had
made him the offer of staying, on account of his friendship and esteem for him;
but he had no desire to make a public demonstration of this, as he could not,
without great imprudence, put himself in a position which must render it
impossible for him to take a part in public affairs, without being exposed to
very serious attacks. He said that he had had no intention to take any part in
public affairs. He would continue to reside where he was, as long as
circumstances should be such that he could remain; and, if circumstances had not
such an appearance, he would do his best to avoid such an exposure.Mr. Copley
also said that Lord Byron had made the proposal to him in writing, and had said
that, as far as he knew, he had no reason to believe that any thing had taken
place which could give Lord Byron any ground for excluding him from the house;
but that he was not prepared to pledge himself, at present, to remain there.Mr.
Copley added that he had thought Lord Byron would have refused to remain; but he
would not at present advise Lord Byron to accept his offer, or to pledge himself
in any manner. He hoped that Lord Byron would adhere to his intention of
remaining. Mr. Copley then added that, as Lord Byron had shown his affection for
him, and had shown that he had a regard for him, and that as he had not asked
any one to form an opinion as to his intentions, Lord Byron had left it to his
friend, Mr. Copley, to judge for himself, whether or not Lord Byron would stay,
and whether he was justified in asking him to accept any public declaration of
his intentions, before he knew whether he had any. He was fully aware that Lord
Byron would not remain in London if he could avoid it, but he would not go to
London until Lord Byron had given him some distinct promise not to remain. He
would, therefore, wait for Lord Byron's reply to the proposition which he had
made to him.Lord Byron made no answer to the propositions which Mr. Copley had
made to him. He had some doubts of the sincerity of Mr. Copley's motives in
making these propositions. Mr. Copley said that he did not know whether Lord
Byron would remain, as he had not yet seen the letter which he had written to
him, and which had been the cause of his declining to receive him; but that he
believed that he would remain, and that he would be very happy to accommodate
his differences with Lord Byron, and to continue to reside at Newstead.He did
not, however, believe that Lord Byron would leave, until he had first received
positive information of his intentions, and that, if he should refuse to
entertain the proposition, he would leave the house.Mr. Copley said that, on the
contrary, he believed that Lord Byron would remain. He would not pledge himself
to this, unless Lord Byron should give him sufficient cause to do so. He would
not even pledge himself to that, unless he had proof of it; but he would not
pledge himself to a proposition which, in his own mind, was at variance with all
he had previously experienced on the subject.Mr. Copley said that he believed
that Lord Byron would remain, but that he had given him some reason to believe
that he would remain, by his silence. Lord Byron replied that he did not know
whether he should remain, but that, if he did remain, he would be sure to
decline all proposals for any arrangement with Mr. Copley. Mr. Copley then
withdrew, and Lord Byron remained.Mr. Copley now left London to make a personal
communication to Lord Byron, in which he declared to him that he had no right to
have any communication with him whatever, unless he had first received positive
intelligence of his intentions, and that, if he remained in London, he would not
accept Mr. Copley's offer, as it was not compatible with his principles and
habits of life.Lord Byron replied that, if Mr. Copley had made such a
communication to him, he could not, in justice, accept it. He was not bound to
any such submission. It would be absurd to expect a man to keep his word,when he
could not make up his mind to break it, when he had not given any reason for his
refusal. Mr. Copley said that he would see Lord Byron to-morrow, and would not
press him further. He hoped that Lord Byron would give some reasonable reason
for his refusal, and he would then be able to say whether he would remain or
not.Lord Byron replied that he would not wait a minute longer than the day after
to-morrow, and that he would then see Mr. Copley, in order to ascertain, as he
said, whether he had given any reason for his refusal.Mr. Copley left London,
having been repulsed by Lord Byron, and having left no one to say anything to
him in his favour, or to interfere in his favour. He remained in London, and
Lord Byron returned to Newstead.Mr. Copley then wrote to Lord Byron, and
requested an immediate reply,on the ground that, if he had been kept back, Lord
Byron would have been more free to act.Lord Byron replied that he could not give
any other reason for his refusal than his aversion to the society of Mr.
Copley.The matter was referred to the arbitrator, who agreed that Lord Byron was
at liberty to go to the house of Mr. Copley, or to stay at home. Mr.Copley wrote
again, but received no answer.Lord Byron then wrote to Lord Lansdowne,
expressing his abhorrence of Mr. Copley, and desiring that he would request Lord
Lansdowne not to say any more about Mr. Copley, but to let him know whether he
had given any reason for his refusal.Mr. Copley did not return, and Mr.
Hobhouse, who had succeeded Mr. Canning in the office of Speaker, undertook to
negotiate a reconciliation between Lord Byron and Mr. Copley.Mr. Hobhouse
stated, that, in consequence of Lord Byron's refusal to receive Mr. Copley, the
communication of Mr. Copley had been withdrawn.He added that Lord Byron was
desirous of avoiding any interview with Mr. Copley, and expressed a hope that
Mr. Hobhouse would avoid all useless conversation.Mr. Hobhouse replied that, in
all other respects, he had scrupulously adhered to the instructions given to him
by Lord Byron; and he stated that he had himself made a second application to
Lord Byron, and had had no answer. He was then of opinion that, as he was so
much against Lord Byron, and had so often expressed his contempt for Mr. Copley,
it would be advisable for Lord Byron to waive all further discussion, and to
come to an amicable arrangement, and not make any farther advances to Mr.
Copley.Lord Byron had now given up all hope of a reconciliation, and was
determined to remain at home, and not to receive Mr. Hobhouse.The next day, Mr.
Hobhouse wrote again to Lord Byron, and stated that Lord Byron had abandoned all
idea of reconciliation, and would listen to no proposals of reconciliation.He
then said that he had made another application to Lord Byron, but had received
no answer. He then wrote again, and stated that Lord Byron had given up all hope
of reconciliation, and that he had made a second application to Lord
Lansdowne.Lord Byron then said that he had written to Lord Lansdowne, to request
him to state to Mr. Copley that Lord Byron had made up his mind to receive him,
and that he had written to Lord Lansdowne, expressing his contempt of Mr.
Copley.Lord Byron then stated, that Mr. Hobhouse's object was to arrange a
reconciliation; that, if he could succeed in that, he should consider himself
perfectly happy; but that, if Lord Byron would not receive him, he should
consider himself as equally happy, and as free from blame as if he had received
him.Lord Byron then said, that he could not entertain Mr. Hobhouse's proposal
without communicating it to Mr. Murray. He stated that he could not, without
stating his reasons, give Mr. Hobhouse any other answer.Lord Byron said that, as
far as he could understand, Mr. Hobhouse's object was, not to find a
reconciliation, but to obtain some proof of Lord Byron's indifference and
indifference to Lord Byron. That he had no proof to offer, and that he must
await the proofs of his indifference and indifference to Lor
